Criminal Defence Attorneys
---------------

Reports have been circulating lately concerning Hillary Clinton having represented an alleged child rapist some 30 years ago.  The [synopsis](http://www.snopes.com/hillary-clinton-freed-child-rapist-laughed-about-it/) on snopes seems to give a decent review of the matter.  Most of the controversy purports to surround HRC's personal feelings and attitude toward the case, but I think a lot of what people find so wrong in the story, is what people find so wrong in the concept of criminal defence attorneys in general: that they seem to have sided with the bad guy.

Of course the conundrum is that not all people who require a criminal defence attorney are guilty, but some certainly are, and we have this weird set of polar opposite people, all rolled up into the one body of a defence attorney:  The defender of the innocent vs the stone-hurling masses ([the innocence project](http://www.innocenceproject.org/dna-exonerations-in-the-united-states/)) but also an aider and abetter of the evil ([Frank Ragano](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frank_Ragano).)  Probably they wouldn't even exist if prosecuting attorneys were true seekers of justice (which they are supposed to be) instead of one with the stone-hurling masses, which is so often the case; but does the fact that we need them make it okay?  What about the myriad grey-shaded cases in between the obviously innocent and the patently guilty?  Are the defenders of the probably-guilty somehow morally complicit in their crimes?  What about the merely possibly-guilty, and everything in between?  Or does it really depend on their attitude?

Now, if you ask a defence attorney about this, they will almost uniformly say something like: "My job is to shine a light upon all of the ways in which the evidence could be construed such that the defendent could be innocent.  The concepts of 'innocent until proven guilty' and 'beyond a reasonable doubt' depend upon such a light being shone..."; then, so that the general rule that we have defence attorneys is a good thing, implies that all defence attorneys are good people they will add the clause "...everyone deserves to be equipped with such a light."  And perhaps everyone does deserve such a light, and, even more importantly, I think, to have a hand in navigating the labyrinthine quagmire that is the legal system.  However, this sentiment completely ignores any other responsibilities one might have as a human being to, say, prevent a rapist from getting away punishment-free to go off a-rapin' some more.  You now have a conflict between two moral imperatives:  Finding reasonable doubts vs. Stopping rapists.  I think that, in many cases, the defence attorney's ultimate subconscious justification boils down to "what will benefit me?"  As in, if I represent the probably-rapist poorly, my lawyering career will suffer, therefore choose "Finding reasonable doubts" and tell myself whatever I need to to help myself sleep at night.

Moral considerations aside, if I was ever wrongfully accused I'd sure be glad to have an attorney who represented me as though they thought I were innocent whether they believed it or not.

Maybe these moral quandries are what drove HRC away from being a defence attorney... or maybe the ability to sleep at night as a defence attorney is what gives her the ability to be a politician.
